.\" SPDX-License-Identifier: GPL-3.0-or-later
.TH LINUXPODS-DAEMON 1 "April 2026" "linuxpods 0.2.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
linuxpods-daemon \- headless AirPods management daemon
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B linuxpods-daemon
.RI [ OPTIONS ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B linuxpods-daemon
is a headless background service that manages Apple AirPods on Linux
through the reverse-engineered Apple Accessory Protocol (AAP) over
Bluetooth L2CAP. It handles device discovery, connection,
battery reporting, noise-control mode switching, ear detection, media
integration (PulseAudio and MPRIS), and the BLE proximity advertising
used by AirPods for pairing.
.PP
The daemon exposes a session D-Bus interface at
.I me.kavishdevar.linuxpods
on the
.I /me/kavishdevar/linuxpods
object path, used by front-ends such as the LinuxPods Plasma 6 tray
widget and the
.BR librepods-ctl (1)
command-line tool.
.PP
It is intended to be started automatically by the user systemd instance
via
.I linuxpods-daemon.service
or by D-Bus session activation and generally should not be invoked
directly.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-\-debug
Enable verbose debug logging to standard error.
.TP
.B \-h , \-\-help
Print a short help message and exit.
.SH FILES
.TP
.I ~/.config/AirPodsTrayApp/AirPodsTrayApp.conf
Per-user settings store (device address, behaviour toggles).
.TP
.I /usr/lib/systemd/user/linuxpods-daemon.service
Systemd user unit used to start the daemon on login.
.TP
.I /usr/share/dbus-1/services/me.kavishdevar.linuxpods.service
D-Bus session activation file.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR librepods (1),
.BR librepods-ctl (1),
.BR bluetoothctl (1),
.BR systemctl (1)
.SH BUGS
Report issues at
.UR https://github.com/Puerh0x1/LinuxPods/issues
.UE .
